Cli for microsoft 365 release blog post v9 (#1916)
pnp/blog: content/cli-for-microsoft-365/cli-for-microsoft-365-v9-0/index.md

---
title: CLI for Microsoft 365 v9
date: 2024-08-31T02:00:00.000Z
author: Adam Wójcik
githubname: Adam-it
categories:
  - CLI for Microsoft 365
images:
  - images/banner-cli-m365.png
tags:
  - CLI for Microsoft 365
  - Entra ID
  - Teams
  - SharePoint
  - SharePoint Embedded
type: popular
---

We have just published a new major version of CLI for Microsoft 365 v9. [CLI for Microsoft 365](https://aka.ms/cli-m365) is a cross-platform command-line tool that allows you to manage your Microsoft 365 tenant and SharePoint Framework projects. This major release introduces several new commands that will enhance the quality of your Microsoft 365 experience as well as a breaking change in the default login experience.

> Explore the [release notes](https://aka.ms/cli-m365/notes) to discover an array of exciting features and improvements that will revolutionize your Microsoft 365 journey. 
 
## The new major version of CLI for Microsoft 365 – v9

> This major release is a reaction to an announcement that the PnP Management Shell multi-tenant app will be removed on September 9. Previously you were able to use this app to grant the needed permissions for your scripts or standard usage of CLI for Microsoft 365. Till now it was even used as the default login method. The removal of this approach might have an impact on your existing scripts. Check the following [recording for more details](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VNgc4k_gCT0) on this announcement. Although using the PnP Management Shell was very convenient it wasn't the best approach that should be picked especially when running automated scripts on your tenant. This option will now go away to help customers to improve their security posture by encouraging the use of single-tenant app and just the scopes and permissions that are needed. CLI for Microsoft 365 already supports login over your own Entra app registration and we already have [guidance that will guide you through the process](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/user-guide/using-own-identity). In this release, we introduced some features that might prove very helpful in adapting to this change.

Author: ```suggestion
This major release is a reaction to an announcement that the PnP Management Shell multi-tenant app will be removed on September 9. Previously you were able to use this app to grant the needed permissions for your scripts or standard usage of CLI for Microsoft 365. Till now it was even used as the default login method. The removal of this approach might have an impact on your existing scripts. Check the following [blog post for more details](https://pnp.github.io/blog/post/changes-pnp-management-shell-registration/) on this announcement. Although using the PnP Management Shell was very convenient it wasn't the best approach that should be picked especially when running automated scripts on your tenant. This option will now go away to help customers to improve their security posture by encouraging the use of single-tenant app and just the scopes and permissions that are needed. CLI for Microsoft 365 already supports login over your own Entra app registration and we already have [guidance that will guide you through the process](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/user-guide/using-own-identity). In this release, we introduced some features that might prove very helpful in adapting to this change.
```

> This major release is a reaction to an announcement that the PnP Management Shell multi-tenant app will be removed on September 9. Previously you were able to use this app to grant the needed permissions for your scripts or standard usage of CLI for Microsoft 365. Till now it was even used as the default login method. As mentioned at the beginning this multi-tenant app registration will be however deleted on September 9, 2024 which might have an impact on your existing scripts. Check the following [recording for more details](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VNgc4k_gCT0) on this announcement. Although using the PnP Management Shell was very convenient it wasn't the best approach that should be picked especially when running automated scripts on your tenant. This option will now go away to help customers to improve their security posture by encouraging the use of single-tenant app and just the scopes and permissions that are needed. CLI for Microsoft 365 already supports login over your own Entra app registration and we already have [guidance that will guide you through the process](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/user-guide/using-own-identity). In this release, we introduced some features that might prove very helpful in adapting to this change.

Author: ```suggestion
This major release is a reaction to an announcement that the PnP Management Shell multi-tenant app will be removed on September 9. Previously you were able to use this app to grant the needed permissions for your scripts or standard usage of CLI for Microsoft 365. Till now it was even used as the default login method. The removal of this approach might have an impact on your existing scripts. Check the following [recording for more details](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VNgc4k_gCT0) on this announcement. Although using the PnP Management Shell was very convenient it wasn't the best approach that should be picked especially when running automated scripts on your tenant. This option will now go away to help customers to improve their security posture by encouraging the use of single-tenant app and just the scopes and permissions that are needed. CLI for Microsoft 365 already supports login over your own Entra app registration and we already have [guidance that will guide you through the process](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/user-guide/using-own-identity). In this release, we introduced some features that might prove very helpful in adapting to this change.
```

type: popular
---

We have just published a new major version of CLI for Microsoft 365 v9. [CLI for Microsoft 365](https://aka.ms/cli-m365) is a cross-platform command-line tool that allows you to manage your Microsoft 365 tenant and SharePoint Framework projects. This major release introduces several new commands that will enhance the quality of your Microsoft 365 experience as well as a breaking change in the default login expiriance.

> Explore the [release notes](https://aka.ms/cli-m365/notes) to discover an array of exciting features and improvements that will revolutionize your Microsoft 365 journey. 
 
## The new major version of CLI for Microsoft 365 – v9

> This major release is a reaction to an annoucement that the PnP Management Shell multi-tenant app will get removed on September 9. Previously you were able to use a this app to grant the needed permissions for your scripts or standard usage of CLI for Microsoft 365. Till now it was event used as the default login method. As mentioned at the beginning this multi-tenant app registration will be however deleted on September 9, 2024 which might have an impact your existing scripts. Check the following [recording for more details](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VNgc4k_gCT0) on this annoucement. Although using the PnP Management Shell was very convinient it wasn't the best approach that should be picked especially when running automated scripts on yout tenant. This option will now go away to help customers to improve their security posture by encouraging the use of single tenant app and just the scopes and permissions which are needed. CLI for Microsoft 365 already supports login over your own Entra app registration and we already have [guidance that will guide you through the process](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/user-guide/using-own-identity). In this release we introduced some features that might prove very helpful in adapting to this change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This major release is a reaction to an announcement that the PnP Management Shell multi-tenant app will be removed on September 9. Previously you were able to use this app to grant the needed permissions for your scripts or standard usage of CLI for Microsoft 365. Till now it was even used as the default login method. As mentioned at the beginning this multi-tenant app registration will be however deleted on September 9, 2024 which might have an impact on your existing scripts. Check the following [recording for more details](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VNgc4k_gCT0) on this announcement. Although using the PnP Management Shell was very convenient it wasn't the best approach that should be picked especially when running automated scripts on your tenant. This option will now go away to help customers improve their security posture by encouraging the use of single-tenant apps and just the needed scopes and permissions. CLI for Microsoft 365 already supports login over your own Entra app registration and we already have [guidance that will guide you through the process](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/user-guide/using-own-identity). In this release, we introduced some features that might prove very helpful in adapting to this change.
```

The most important change that had to be done was the way CLI for Microsoft 365 will perfomr default login. When running `m365 login` CLI will first check if you defined the `appId` which is now required to your own single tenant Entra app registration. 

This may be either passed as the option like 

```sh
m365 login --appId 31359c7f-bd7e-475c-86db-fdb8c937548c --tenant 31359c7f-bd7e-475c-86db-fdb8c937548a
```

Or you may also define it as a CLI for Microsoft 365 config using the following command by running

```sh
m365 cli config set --key 'clientId' --value '31359c7f-bd7e-475c-86db-fdb8c937548e'
```

You may also define it as an environemnt variable `CLIMICROSOFT365_ENTRAAPPID` and you may find more details regarding this option in our [guide](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/user-guide/using-own-identity#create-environment-variables). 

> This means that you will now need to set up your own Entra app registration before performing the initial login. You may do that in several ways. Either by doing it manually and we also included detail [step by step documentation for that](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/user-guide/using-own-identity#register-microsoft-entra-application-in-your-tenant) or you may use our new `setup` expiriance which will make this process effortless. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that you will now need to set up your own Microsoft Entra app registration before performing the initial login. You may do that in several ways. Either by doing it manually, and we also included detailed [step-by-step documentation](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/user-guide/using-own-identity#register-microsoft-entra-application-in-your-tenant) for that or you may use our new `setup` experience which will make this process effortless. 
```

By the way, this tip you may also find when running the `m365 login` command without specifing the `appId`. 

![m365-login-tip](./images/m365-login-tip.png)

> The m365 setup command is a wizard that helps you configure the CLI for Microsoft 365 for your needs. It will ask you a series of questions and based on your answers, it will configure the CLI for Microsoft 365 for you and now it will also help you create your own Entra app registration in a matter of seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The m365 setup command is a wizard that helps you configure the CLI for Microsoft 365 for your needs. It will ask you a series of questions and based on your answers, it will configure the CLI for Microsoft 365 for you and now it will also help you create your own Microsoft Entra app registration in a matter of seconds.
```

When running:

```sh
m365 setup
```

CLI will now ask you an additional question:

- CLI for Microsoft 365 requires a Microsoft Entra app. Do you want to create a new app registration or use an existing one?

> You can choose between using an existing Entra app or creating a new one. If you choose to create a new app, the CLI will ask you to choose between a minimal and a full set of permissions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can choose between using an existing Entra app or creating a new one. If you choose to create a new app, CLI will ask you to choose between a minimal and a full set of permissions. 
```

> Minimal set of permissions will create a new Entra app registration with only `User.Read` scope. This is a perfect starting point to have a ready to use app that then you may manually modify to add only the needed scopes for your script. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A minimal set of permissions will create a new Microsoft Entra app registration with only a `User.Read` scope. This is a perfect starting point to have a ready-to-use app that you may then manually modify by adding the needed scopes for your script. 
```

> Full set of permission, on the other hand, will create an Entra app registration with all the scopes currently required to run all commands CLI for Microsoft 365 has. This is very convinient and is the easiest thing to pick to get unblocked with all CLI functionalities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A full set of permissions, on the other hand, will create a Microsoft Entra app registration with all the scopes currently required to run all commands CLI for Microsoft 365 has. This is very convenient and is the easiest thing to pick to get unblocked with all CLI functionalities.
```

> Whats important to now is that the `setup` command signs in as Azure CLI to your tenant to creates a new app registration, and stores its information in the CLI configuration so that then you don't need to specify them yourself in the `login` command. Check out how easy and convinient it is in this short demo:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What's important to know is that the `setup` command signs in as Azure CLI to your tenant to create a new app registration. This information is then stored in the CLI configuration so that you don't need to specify them yourself in the `login` command. Check out how easy and convenient it is in this short demo:
```

![setup](./images/setup.gif)

> > To help you upgrade to v9, we prepared a summary of the breaking change and the recommended actions. For more information see the [v9 Upgrade Guidance](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/v9-upgrade-guidance/) in our docs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> To help you upgrade to v9, we prepared a summary of the breaking changes and the recommended actions. For more information see the [v9 Upgrade Guidance](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/v9-upgrade-guidance/) on our docs.
```

> Following is an overview of the most noteworthy changes in v8.

Reviewer: Everything below is not `v8` right? They will be released together with this `v9`, right? The only difference is that these are non-breaking changes.

Author: this is quite strange. I already updated this before your comment
